
=pod

=head1 NAME

B<parprouted> - Proxy ARP IP bridging daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<parprouted> [B<--addressless -a>] [B<--debug -d>] [B<--foreground -f>] [B<--gratuitous -g>] [B<--network -n> I<address/size>] [B<--permanent -p>] [B<--pidfile -P> I<file>] [B<--sync -s>] B<interface> [B<interface ...>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

parprouted is a daemon for transparent IP (Layer 3) proxy ARP bridging. 
Unlike standard bridging, proxy ARP bridging allows to bridge Ethernet 
networks behind wireless nodes. Normal L2 bridging does not work between 
wireless nodes because wireless does not know about MAC addresses used 
in the wired Ethernet networks. Also this daemon is useful for making 
transparent firewalls.

The daemon listens for incoming ARP requests, and in case the location 
of the requested IP address is unknown, forwards them to other interfaces, 
as well as updates kernel ARP table with the received replies. When 
necessary, the daemon generates an ARP reply itself, which causes the 
stations to send traffic to the host daemon is running on. By 
automatically adding appropriate /32 routes to Linux kernel IP routing 
table for the hosts learned via ARP, daemon ensures that the Linux kernel 
will be able to route the packets to the destination host when it receives 
them without any need routing/subnetting manually.

All routes entered by the daemon have a metric of 50. 

Unless you use B<-p> switch, all entries in the ARP table will be 
refreshed (rechecked by sending ARP requests) every 50 seconds. This 
keeps them from being expired by kernel.

Normally it takes about 60 ms for a bridge to update all its tables and 
start sending packets to the destination.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

This daemon can be used for unicast traffic only. i.e., DHCP is not supported.
Use software such as dhcprelay to "bridge" DHCP.

You should have an IP address assigned on all of your interfaces that you do 
bridging on, unless you use addressless mode (B<-a>). There is no need for this 
address to be from the same networks as the bridged networks. Any dummy address 
will do.

The system should have correct default route.

parprouted requires "ip" program from iproute2 tools to be installed in 
/sbin. If it is installed in another location, please replace "/sbin/ip" 
occurrences in the source with the correct path. As well you should have 
proc filesystem mounted in /proc because the daemon uses /proc/net/arp.

=head1 OPTIONS

The list of interfaces to do bridging on should be given via the command line.

The daemon accepts the following switches:

B<-a> or B<--addressless>, which enables addressless mode for use when bridged 
interfaces have no IP addresses. This mode implies B<-p> (permanent ARP entries).

B<-f>, which stands for foreground. This option prevents running the program 
as a daemon.

B<-d>, which stands for debug. Extra debugging info is emitted to 
stdout/stderr. This implies B<-f>.

B<-g> or B<--gratuitous>, which enables sending gratuitous ARP announcements.
When enabled, the daemon will send gratuitous ARP requests to all other 
interfaces when it receives an ARP reply. This helps other hosts update their 
ARP tables more quickly.

B<-n> I<address/size> or B<--network> I<address/size>, which filters ARP 
traffic by network. Only ARP packets from the specified network will be 
processed. The network should be specified in CIDR notation (e.g., 192.168.1.0/24).

B<-p>, which makes all ARP entries permanent. This will also result in that 
ARP tables will not be refreshed by ARP pings.

B<-P> I<file> or B<--pidfile> I<file>, which specifies the location of the PID file.
When specified, the daemon will write its process ID to this file. If not specified,
the default location I</var/run/parprouted.pid> is used when running as a daemon.
No PID file is created when running in foreground mode (B<-f>) unless explicitly
specified with B<-P>.

B<-s> or B<--sync>, which enables IP address synchronization across interfaces.

=head1 EXAMPLE

To bridge between wlan0 and eth0: B<parprouted eth0 wlan0>

=head1 AUTHOR

 (C) 2008, Vladimir Ivaschenko <vi@maks.net>
 http://www.hazard.maks.net
